# Foam

👋 Welcome to your new Foam Workspace!

## Getting started

This documentation assumes that you have a GitHub account and have [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) installed on your Linux/MacOS/Windows machine.

1. If you haven't yet, browse over to the main [Foam documentation workspace](https://foambubble.github.io/foam) to get an idea of what Foam is and how to use it.
2. Press "Use this template" button at [foam-template-gatsby-kb](https://github.com/hikerpig/foam-template-gatsby-kb) (that's this repository!) to fork it to your own GitHub account. If you want to keep your thoughts to yourself, remember to set the repository private.
3. [Clone the repository to your local machine](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository) and open it in VS Code.
    *Open the repository as a folder using the `File > Open...` menu item. In VS Code, "open workspace" refers to [multi-root workspaces](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/multi-root-workspaces).*
4. When prompted to install recommended extensions, click **Install all** (or **Show Recommendations** if you want to review and install them one by one)
5. Open [_layouts/gatsby-config.js](_layouts/gatsby-config.js) and edit the `pathPrefix` to be the name of the repository.

After setting up the repository, open [.vscode/settings.json](.vscode/settings.json) and edit, add or remove any settings you'd like for your Foam workspace.

To learn more about how to use **Foam**, read the [Recipes](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/recipes) bubbles of the Foam documentation workspace.

### Some configurations

Check the `_layouts/gatsby-config.js` file, and there is some configs you should concern if you want to deploy your site and view it correctly.

```js
module.exports = {
  pathPrefix: `/foam-template-gatsby-kb`, // a. If you are using github pages, this should be the name of your repo
  // pathPrefix: `/`, // b. If you are using Netlify/Vercel, your can keep it this way
  siteMetadata: {
    // some SEO configs using by gatsby-theme-kb
    title: `Foam`, // Replace it with your site's title
    author: `Your Name`, // Replace it with your name
    description: `My personal knowledge base`, // Replace it with your site's description
  },
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-theme-kb`,
      options: {
        rootNote: "/readme",
        contentPath: `${__dirname}/..`,
        ignore: [
          "**/_layouts/**",
          "**/.git/**",
          "**/.github/**",
          "**/.vscode/**",
          "**/.cache/**",
        ],
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

For more available theme options, check [gatsby-theme-kb README](https://github.com/hikerpig/gatsby-project-kb/tree/master/packages/gatsby-theme-kb).

## Using Foam

We've created a few Bubbles (markdown documents) to get you started.

- [[inbox]] - a place to write down quick notes to be categorised later
- [[foam-tips]] - tips to get the most out of your Foam workspace
- [[todo]] - a place to keep track of things to do

## Note on `[[wiki-links]]`

⚠️ Until [foambubble/foam#16](https://github.com/foambubble/foam/issues/16) is resolved, `[[wiki-links]]` links (like the links above) won't work in the GitHub Markdown preview (i.e. this Readme on github.com).

They should work as expected in VS Code, and in rendered GitHub Pages.

If GitHub preview (or general 100% support with all Markdown tools) is a requirement, for the time being you can use the standard `[description](page.md)` syntax.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[inbox]: inbox "Inbox"
[foam-tips]: foam-tips "Foam tips"
[todo]: todo "Todo"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
